Async API Standards (#130)
tewhatuora/api-standards: docs/api-development/Asynchronous APIs/01-Introduction.md

Asynchronous APIs have many uses, such as realtime chat applications, software developed using [CQRS](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/CQRS.html) and remote procedure invocation and messaging/data sharing. The primary focus of these standards focus on the messaging and data sharing use cases for Async APIs.

## When to choose an Asynchronous API

Asynchronous APIs are appropriate to use when designing an API to meet any of the below criteria:

- When there is a requirement to notify one or many consumers of a change in resource state
- When performing a request that may take a long period of time, such as large data exports, human task interrupted workflows or analytic workloads
- When data must be sent or received in realtime, such as from IoT devices
- When designing a decoupled system, such as in a microservices environment

> - When there is a requirement to use/display the most up to date copy of data

Author: The intent here was to suggest that consumer applications that should use the latest version of a resource can be notified of updates to the resource and update a local copy, as opposed to a sync workflow which would need to either query the source each time or use a potentially state local copy

I've pushed some alternate wording for review/discussion

- When performing a request that may take a long period of time, such as large data exports, human task interrupted workflows or analytic workloads
- When timeliness of state changes are critical for the use case, such as near-real-time updates from IoT devices
- When designing a decoupled system, such as in a microservices environment

> - When it is important for the API Consumer to use the most up to date version of a resource, as they can be notified of a change, as opposed to querying the source system each time it is used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When it is important for the API Consumer to use the most up to date version of a resource, as they can be notified of a change rather than querying the source system each time it is used
```
